Russia and Belarus teams suspended from FIDE competitions
Taking into account the current recommendations of the IOC, the FIDE Council suspends the national teams of Russia and Belarus from participation in official FIDE tournaments until further notice. In the individual tournaments of the FIDE World Championship cycle, players from these countries will be able to participate under the FIDE flag.
The FIDE Council held on March 15, 2022, in online format, made several important decisions:
1. To award the organisation of the 44th Chess Olympiad  to the All India Chess Federation to be organised in Chennai within the period from 28.07.(opening ceremony) till 10.08. (departure).                                                                                                                                  
2. To award the organisation of the 94th FIDE Congress to the All India Chess Federation to be organised in Chennai within the period from 31.07. (arrival) till 09.08. (departure) and to approve 07.08. as the date for FIDE elections.
3. To note strong preference to organise the Chess Olympiad for people with disabilities at the same dates as the 44th Chess Olympiad.
4. Taking into account the current recommendations of the IOC, to suspend the national teams of Russia and Belarus from participation in official FIDE tournaments until further notice. In the individual tournaments of the FIDE World Championship cycle, players from these countries will be allowed to participate under the FIDE flag.
5. To postpone the Women’s Candidates Tournament 2022 to the last quarter of 2022 and to continue consultations with players regarding the format of the tournament.
6. To approve the proposals of the FIDE Medical Commission in principle. To request the FIDE Management Board and FIDE Medical Commission to prepare details regarding practical steps in respect of the implementation.
7. To hold the next meeting of the FIDE Council on 27-29 April 2022 in the United Arab Emirates.
8. To approve the bid of the Isle of Man for the organisation of the Grand Swiss 2023 and Women Grand Swiss 2023.

